A Visitor for Sherlock Holmes

For many years, I shared an apartment in London with my friend, Sherlock Holmes.

My name is Doctor Watson. I worked as a doctor in the British Army for several years. While I was in the army, I travelled to many strange and interesting places. I had many exciting adventures.

Then one day, in Afghanistan, I was shot in the shoulder. My wound was deep and took many months to heal. I nearly died from pain and fever. At last I got better, but I could not work in the army any more. I retired from the army and came back to England.

That is why I was living in London with Sherlock Holmes. I had known my friend for many years. Our address was 221B Baker Street, in the centre of the city.

I enjoyed sharing an apartment with Holmes. My friend was a very clever man. He was the most famous private detective in London. He helped to solve crimes and catch criminals.

When people were in trouble or needed help, they came to Holmes. Sometimes the police came to Holmes and asked for help in catching a criminal.

Sherlock Holmes did not care if his clients were rich or poor. He enjoyed solving their interesting problems. He was very happy when he was working. It was the most important thing in his life.

One afternoon, I was reading a book and Holmes was standing by the window in our sitting-room. Usually he was very busy and active. But this afternoon he did not seem very happy. I was worried about my friend.

'What's the matter with you today, Holmes?' I asked.

'Come and stand at the window, Watson,' Holmes said. Look out into the street. See how uninteresting London is today.'

It was winter. The street outside was almost empty. Everyone was at home in front of their warm fires.

'I need some work, Watson,' said Holmes impatiently. 'I cannot live without interesting problems and mysteries. That's why I became a private detective. I love my work. It keeps my brain active. But when there are no crimes and no mysteries to solve - ah, then life becomes very boring for me.'

He turned sadly away from the window.

At that moment, there was a knock at the door. Our housekeeper came into the room. She was carrying a small white card on a silver tray. Holmes picked up the card.

'Miss Mary Morstan,' he read aloud. 'I don't know anyone of that name. Please ask the lady to come in. Perhaps it is a new client.'

A few moments later, Miss Morstan entered the room. She was young and not very tall, with blonde hair and blue eyes. Her clothes were not fashionable, but they were clean and tidy. She had a lovely face. I noticed at once that she looked worried and unhappy.

'Please sit down, Miss Morstan,' said Holmes kindly. 'I am Sherlock Holmes and this is my good friend, Doctor Watson. Doctor Watson and I have worked together many times.'

'I'm very pleased to meet you both,' said the young lady. Then she turned to Holmes and looked at him with her lovely blue eyes.

'Mr Holmes, I've heard that you give people good advice. I'm not a rich woman but I hope you can help me too. Something very strange has happened. Mr Holmes, I need your help!'
CHAPTER TWO

Miss Morstan's Story

Holmes rubbed his hands together excitedly. His eyes shone and he leant forward in his chair.

'Tell us your story,' he said.

Miss Morstan began her story and we listened.

'My father,' she began, 'was a captain in the army. When I was very young, he was sent to India. My mother was dead and I had no other relatives in England. So, while my father was away, I was sent to school.

'When I was seventeen, I received a letter from my father. He said that he was leaving India and coming back to England. He gave me the address of a hotel in London. He asked me to meet him there.

'I was very happy and excited about seeing my dear father again. I went to London and arrived at the hotel. I asked for Captain Morstan, my father. But I was told by the hotel manager that my father was not there. He had gone out the night before and not returned.

'I waited all day and all night, but my father didn't come back to the hotel. Finally, I went to the police. They advertised for Captain Morstan in all the newspapers, but without success. I never saw my dear father again.'

Miss Morstan began to cry.

Holmes opened his notebook. 'What was the date that your father disappeared?' he asked.

'It was 3rd December 1878 - nearly ten years ago.'

'What happened to his luggage?'

'It was still at the hotel,' replied Miss Morstan. 'The cases contained some books and clothes, and some paintings and ornaments from the Andaman Islands.'

'The Andaman Islands. What are they?' I asked.

'A small group of islands near the coast of India,' said Miss Morstan. 'There is a prison on one of the islands. My father was one of the officers in charge of the prisoners. He worked there for many years.'

'Did your father have any friends in London?' asked Holmes.

'Only one - Major Sholto. He was also in charge of the prisoners in the Andaman Islands. The Major had retired from the army some time before my father disappeared. He was living in London and, of course, I went to see him. But he didn't know that my father had arrived in England.'

'Your story is very interesting,' said Holmes, rubbing his hands together once more. 'Please, go on.'

'Four years after my father disappeared,' continued Miss Morstan, 'I saw an advertisement in the newspaper. The date was 4th May 1882. To my surprise, the advertisement asked for the address of Miss Mary Morstan. It said that if I advertised my address, I would receive some very good news.'

'What did you do?' asked Holmes.

'I advertised my address in the same newspaper. The next day, I received a small cardboard box. Inside the box was a lovely pearl. And I have received another five pearls since that day. They arrive every year on the same day. Look.'

She opened a flat box and showed us six beautiful pearls.

'There was no letter with the pearls?' asked Holmes.

'Nothing at all,' replied Miss Morstan. Then she continued. 'But the strangest thing of all happened this morning. That is why I came to see you. This morning, I received a letter. Please read it.'

'Thank you,' said Holmes He took the letter and studied it carefully. Then he handed it to me.

London 17th November 1887

Dear Miss Morstan,

Go to the Lyceum Theatre tonight at seven o'clock. Stand outside the entrance, on the left. If you are afraid, bring two friends. Do not bring the police.

You have been deceived, but you will learn the truth tonight.

Your Unknown Friend

'What can this letter mean?' asked Miss Morstan. 'I am afraid. What should I do, Mr Holmes? You are a clever man and can give me good advice.'

Holmes jumped up excitedly.

'We shall go tonight to the Lyceum Theatre - the three of us you and me and Doctor Watson. The letter asks you to bring two friends with you. You will come with us, won't you, Watson?'

'Of course,' I said. 'I'll be very happy to come.'

I was speaking the truth. I wanted to help Miss Morstan.

'You are both very kind,' said Miss Morstan. 'Since my father disappeared, I have been alone in the world. I have no friends whom I can ask for help. What time shall we meet this evening?'

Holmes looked at his watch.

'It's now half past three,' he said. 'Come back at six o'clock. Don't be afraid, Miss Morstan. This evening we'll come with you to the Lyceum Theatre. We'll meet your unknown friend. And we'll try to solve the mystery.'

'Thank you,' said Miss Morstan. She smiled at us and left the room.

'What a lovely woman,' I remarked.

'I'm going out now,' said Holmes. 'I'll be back in about an hour.'

When Holmes had gone I sat down by the window and tried to read a book. But I could stop thinking about Miss Morstan. I hoped that we would be able to help her.
CHAPTER THREE

A Strange Meeting

A t half past five, Holmes returned. He was very pleased about something.

'I have had great success, Watson,' he said, as I gave him a cup of tea.

'What, Holmes! Have you solved the mystery already?' I asked in surprise.

'No, no. But I have discovered something very interesting. Miss Morstan said that her father had a very good friend in India. His name was Major Sholto.'

'Yes,' I said. 'Major Sholto had retired from the army. He was living in London when Captain Morstan disappeared. But he did not know that Morstan was in England.'

'Well,' said Holmes. 'I have just been to the offices of The Times newspaper. I looked through the old copies of the newspaper and I discovered that Major Sholto died on 28th April 1882.

'Perhaps I am very stupid, Holmes, but I don't see why this discovery is interesting.'

'Listen,' Holmes said. 'Captain Morstan disappeared. He had one friend in London - Major Sholto. But Major Sholto said that he didn't know that Captain Morstan was in London.

'Four years later, on 28th April 1882, Sholto died. A few days later, on 4th May 1882, Captain Morstan's daughter saw the advertisement in a newspaper. Then, she received a valuable present. These presents came every year. Why do the presents arrive on that day? They must have something to do with Sholto's death.'

I was still puzzled. 'But Sholto died six years ago,' I said. 'Why did Miss Morstan receive that letter today - six years later? The letter speaks of telling her the truth. What can it mean?'

'I hope that we'll find the answers to these questions tonight, Watson,' said Holmes seriously. 'Are you ready? It's six o'clock and here is Miss Morstan.'

Miss Morstan entered the room. She was wearing a dark cloak and hat. She did not seem afraid, but her beautiful face was very pale.

I picked up my hat and my heaviest stick. I noticed that Holmes took his gun from his drawer and put it into his pocket.

We got into a cab and were soon on our way to the Lyceum Theatre. In the cab, Miss Morstan took a piece of paper out of her bag.

'Mr Holmes, I forgot to show you this. This note was found in my father's luggage. It is very strange. I don't know what it means. Perhaps it isn't very important, but I wanted you to see it.'

Holmes unfolded the note carefully and spread it on his knee. He took a magnifying glass out of his pocket and examined the paper.

'This paper was made in India,' he remarked. 'Have a look at it, Watson.'

I took the note and studied it carefully. The paper was thin and old. There was a drawing on the paper.

'It looks like the plan of a large building,' I said. 'Somebody has made a mark to show a certain place in the building. But what are these names at the bottom? And what is the meaning of - "The Sign of Four"?'

'I don't understand what this note means,' said Holmes. 'But it might be important. I will keep it.'

He sat back in the cab. Miss Morstan and I talked quietly together. But Holmes did not say anything. I knew he was thinking hard.

It was getting dark and the people in the streets were hurrying home from work. I was feeling a little afraid. I wondered what kind of person we would meet at the Lyceum Theatre.

There were many people outside the theatre. Everyone was meeting friends and going in to see the play. The letter had told us to stand outside on the left. We waited. Suddenly a small dark man appeared.

'Are you Miss Morstan and her friends?' he asked.

'Yes,' she said.

'You must promise me that these men are not policemen,' said the stranger.

'They are not policemen,' replied Miss Morstan.

'Then come with me,' said the man.

He led us quickly across the street to another cab and opened the door. We went inside. The man closed the door and jumped up onto the driver's seat of the cab. The horse moved off quickly.

We passed through so many streets that I was very soon lost. I had no idea where we were going. I was feeling nervous and Miss Morstan's face looked white. Sherlock Holmes was calm. Our strange driver did not turn round or speak to us. The only sound was the noise of the horse's hooves.

At last we stopped. We were outside a house in a dark quiet street. It had only one small light in the kitchen window. There were no lights in any of the other houses in the street.

We knocked at the door. It was opened immediately by an Indian servant. The Indian was wearing a bright yellow turban on his head. He had white clothes and a yellow belt. It was very strange to see such brightly colored clothes in this quiet street in London.

'My master is waiting for you,' said the servant.

As he spoke, we heard a man's voice. It came from one of the rooms inside the house.

'Bring them in to me,' the voice called. 'Bring them straight in to me.'